WIP Inclusive Events Technology Considerations Subsection (#3402)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/collaboration/inclusive-events/inclusive-events-tech.md

(cl-inclusive-events-technology)=
# Technology Considerations for Inclusive Events

> When planning an event that will be attended by people with lived experience, event organizers should carefully consider various technology aspects to ensure inclusivity, accessibility, and a seamless experience for all participants. 

Author: Yup! At the beginning of the chapter and on the landing page as well I believe.

This section focuses on considerations and recommendations around using different technologies to support the inclusion of people with lived experience at both in-person and hybrid (or online) events. 

(cl-inclusive-events-hybrid)=
## Hybrid as an Accessibility and Inclusion Strategy
Hybrid events, by default, prioritize accessibility and the inclusivity of attendees with lived experience, making them the ideal choice to engage an audience of individuals with diverse lived experiences. 
Online sessions can be better supportive of individuals who experience extreme fatigue or find it difficult to attend in-person events, while in-person components can make use of local resources to support engagements and may be preferred for others requiring support.

The integration of both in-person and virtual components ensures that participants can engage in a manner that suits their preferences and circumstances.

> The flexibility of hybrid formats recognizes the challenges faced by individuals with varied abilities and mobility constraints, providing a virtual option to overcome any physical barriers presented by in-person only events. 

Author: I may review this sentence again later - I think it may be too broad of a statement now that it's its own sentence.

This flexibility also accommodates the diverse schedules and responsibilities of all attendees, and acknowledges any additional scheduling challenges that may be faced by people with lived experiences. 

Although planning and hosting hybrid events often requires more resources to be successful, by making your event hybrid you can better prioritize accessibility needs and the inclusion of attendees with lived experience at your event, empowering a wide range of participants to contribute and benefit from your event's content and community.

> If you are planning a hybrid event, please review The Turing Way's {ref}`cl-hybrid-collab` and specifically the {ref}`cl-hybrid-collab-guidelines`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are planning a hybrid event, please read The Turing Way's {ref}`Chapter on Hybrid Collaboration<cl-hybrid-collab> and specifically the {ref}`Subchapter on Guidelines for Hybrid Collaboration<cl-hybrid-collab-guidelines>`.
```

Author: Thanks @EKaroune 

I might have to go through and do this in a few other places too as I assumed it rendered the title of the content block you referenced 😅

(cl-inclusive-events-calendar-invites)=
## Using Email Reminders and Calendar Invitations
Many people with lived experience have to maintain a very busy schedule and often rely on online calendar tools and email reminders to stay organized. 

> Consider sending both a Calendar placeholder invitation for your event, and email reminders the week before, the week of, and the morning of your event. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider sending both a calendar placeholder invitation for your event, and email reminders the week before, the week of, and the morning of your event. 
```

We have curated a few examples based on different event formats that can be used as guidance for planning your event. 

### In-Person Event
#### In-Person Technical Support 
* Ensuring that the audio and visual set-up is working.
* Supporting presenters and speakers with presentation set-up and slide transitions.
* Ensuring that any audio or hearing induction loop technology is working and accessible.
* Opening up polls or other interaction software used during the event.
#### In-Person Facilitator 
* Ensuring that attendees and any speakers are able to engage in the session.
* Working with a speaker or panellists to answer questions from the audience.
* Ensuring that questions taken from the audience represent the diversity of the attendees.
* Providing the audience with information about any emergency exits or other physical locations of importance during the event.
#### In-Person Notetaker 
* Taking notes during the session and capturing the main points of discussion. 
* Depending on your event, this may also involve sending notes or making them available to attendees with sensory impairments in order to support them engaging in the session.

> ### Hybrid and Online Event 

Author: I wanted to highlight the differences in duties but will try to add a sentence in somewhere about this.

#### Technical Support 

> * Supporting attendees and facilitators with sound or video focus difficulties.

Reviewer: add - removing people if there is any inappropriate behaviour.

* Hosting the online platform and opening the session if there is a waiting room.
* Placing attendees on mute if there is loud or distracting background noise. 

#### Online Facilitator
* Supporting the engagement of attendees and moderating conversation.
* Providing discussion prompts and asking thought-provoking questions.
* Introducing speakers and presenters.
* Facilitating Q&A and any polls that are used during the session.

#### Online Notetaker 

> * Taking notes during the event's sessions and ensuring that they are accessible to all attendees.

Reviewer: add - Sharing links in the chat requested from speakers and community

* Ensuring the event is recorded.
#### In-Person Facilitator 
* Ensuring that attendees and any speakers are able to engage in the session using microphones or other audio equipment.
* Working with a speaker or panellists to answer questions from the audience.
* Ensuring that questions taken from the audience represent the diversity of the attendees.
* Providing the audience with information about any emergency exits or other physical locations of importance during the event.
#### In-Person Notetaker 
* Taking notes during the session and capturing the main points of discussion. 
* Depending on your event, this may also involve sending notes or making them available to attendees with sensory impairments in order to support them engaging in the session.

### Online Event
#### Technical Support 
* Supporting attendees and facilitators with sound or video focus difficulties.
* Hosting the online platform and opening the session if there is a waiting room.
* Placing attendees on mute if there is loud or distracting background noise. 
* Ensuring the event is recorded and streamed with closed captions and transcription software.

> * Removing people if there is any inappropriate behaviour that contravenes the event's Code of Conduct.

Author: you're right - i think tasks will probably vary (especially depending on how many people are able to help at the event itself) but I moved it into the facilitator's section as it's a better fit.

For example:
* Check that any slides or presentations that will be shown during your event are legible and able to be displayed on your equipment. 
* Check that any closed captioning software that you are using is functional and that the transcripts are able to be displayed and accessed by attendees.
* Run through any slide or presentation changes to check that any video or slide transitions do not display bright flashes which present a health risk and can trigger photosensitive epilepsy
* Check that audio induction loops are working and accessible to any attendees who need them.
* Test the internet, cameras or recording equipment, and lighting. 
* Ensure that wifi and cellular networks are accessible throughout the venue for any attendees who may need to check in with carers or other support staff who are not present at your event. 
* Ensure that there is clear guidance that is readily accessible to attendees in the event of a technical issue. 

Because this is not an exhaustive list, it is important to understand the needs and preferences of your specific attendees as part of making your event inclusive and accessible. 

> Where possible, involve a representative with lived experience in your event planning and work with a community to ensure that any barriers introduced by technology use at your event can be addressed and mitigated. 

Reviewer 2: I guess a ref to 3307 is in order here? Or is that the one following this one? :)

Author: I think that's following. 

I added this suggestion after a reviewer pointed out that it needs to be stated everywhere possible that the event planning needs to involve people with the specific knowledge and needs that events are being organized to support. 

It'll be a repetitive sentiment that does bear repeating each time it's used.
